CSMART contains a few known issues:

* Export scripts require the -r argument to mysqldump, which is not
  available in somer older versions of mysql (like 3.23.33). If you
  want to use the experiment or recipe export scripts, upgrade to
  the latest version of MySQL 3.23 (bug 1566).

* Society Monitor will warn about an inability to contact Agents in
  which no CSMART Servlets are running. This will usually include all
  Node Agents. While not a bug, it is annoying. See bug # 1241

* An experiment removed from the database may still show up in your
  CSMART workspace.

* Running a node on a multiprocessor machines may result in the CSMART
  console freezing up.

* We have seen occasional Swing exceptions while running an Experiment
  in the console. This is being reported to Sun. See bug #1104. Other
  JDK related bugs include 1300 (large workspace window), 1433
  (infinite AWT loop using console), 1439 (exception closing a tool
  while a drop-down list is open).

* Windows users creating societies from new-style INI files must put
  the directory containing those files on the org.cougaar.config.path
  for CSMART.

* Some Windows users report corrupted data loading the CSMART
  database when getting data files from CVS or after editing the
  files. If you need to edit the DB or get your CSMART db data files
  from CVS, try using Cygwin. See bug #1321.

* MySQL cannot load data across network drives, causing errors
  creating the database in some circumstances. If you are loading data
  across a network drive, use the "local" option to the MySQL data
  load script (load_1ad_mysql.sh). You must have MySQL server version 3.23.49
  or better to use this option.

* CSMART will not prevent Agent or Node names with illegitimate characters,
  as it should. Bug # 1477

* If you export 2 experiments from different databases using the
  included experiment export script, then import both into the same
  database, it is possible for these exports to conflict. Bug # 1364

* Do not use a host name of "localhost" or one with "non-standard"
  characters in it when configuring your Experiment in the Experiment Builder.

For up to date information on these and other CSMART issues see:
http://www.cougaar.org/bugs
